2/27, 9 pm
Present- Isabel, Caymen, Matt (taking over minutes from Louis)

We told Paul we could no longer develop new/drastic feature changes since it is too late in the process.

Caymen showed Paul the reports feature- Paul stated we should change the terminology of "heat" to relay, but other than this he was pleased with the feature.

Updated Paul on the progress of the report exporting, he again seemed pleased.

Paul asked about the file format of our reports- we informed him about what .csv means and assured him our reports would show up properly. 

Caymen confirmed that the coach schedule reports (now populated by Louis's scheduler) were of the format Paul wanted.

Paul asked about status of server- we updated him on our contact with the server owner he gave us.

Paul warned us that in the future he might not be able to make one of our scheduled meetings because he's going to be at a competition for about two weeks. He will be absent from March 15th to the 25th. We will meet with him again on the 27th.

We weren't able to discuss the competitions changes.